README.md, before:

# Automaton Auditor

Automated quality-assurance swarm that audits GitHub repositories and PDF reports using a **Digital Courtroom** architecture: Detectives collect forensic evidence → Judges (Prosecutor, Defense, Tech Lead) deliberate per rubric criterion → Chief Justice synthesizes a verdict.

## Requirements

- **Python 3.11+**
- **[uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)** for package management

## Setup

**Prerequisites:** Python 3.11+ and [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/). For reproducible installs, `uv sync` uses the project's **`uv.lock`** (pinned dependency versions).

1. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   uv sync
   ```

2. **Environment**

   Copy the example env file and set your API key (required for Judge nodes):

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Edit `.env` and set **`OPENAI_API_KEY`** (required). The app loads `.env` automatically when you run the CLI.

## Run

From the project root (so `.env` is found):

```bash
uv run python -m src.run <repo_url> [pdf_path] [--rubric path] [--output path]
```

- **Default PDF:** If you omit `pdf_path`, the auditor clones the repo and uses **`reports/final_report.pdf`** inside that repo (relative to the repo under evaluation).
- **Custom PDF:** Pass a path to use a different PDF (e.g. a local file or a path inside the cloned repo).

Examples:

```bash
# Use default PDF (reports/final_report.pdf inside the cloned repo)
uv run python -m src.run https://github.com/octocat/Hello-World --output audit/report.md

# Use a specific PDF
uv run python -m src.run https://github.com/octocat/Hello-World report.pdf --output audit/report.md
```

- **Where the report is written:** To the path given by `--output`, or by default **`audit/report_<repo_slug>.md`** (e.g. `audit/report_Hello-World.md`). The file is Markdown: Executive Summary, Criterion Breakdown, Remediation Plan.
- **Errors:** Missing `OPENAI_API_KEY`, empty `repo_url`, or invalid rubric produce a clear error message and exit code 1.

## Observability (LangSmith)

To trace the full flow (Detectives → Judges → Chief Justice) in [LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com/):

1. Set in `.env`: `LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2=true` and `LANGCHAIN_API_KEY=<your-key>`.
2. Run the audit as above; open LangSmith to see the trace.

## Docker (optional)

Build and run with Docker:

```bash
docker build -t automaton-auditor .
docker run --env-file .env -v "%cd%\audit:/app/audit" -v "%cd%\report.pdf:/app/report.pdf" automaton-auditor https://github.com/org/repo /app/report.pdf --output /app/audit/report.md
```

On Linux/macOS use `$(pwd)` instead of `%cd%`. Ensure `.env` contains `OPENAI_API_KEY` and any PDF is mounted where `pdf_path` points.

## State management

Parallel nodes write to shared state; **reducers** merge their updates: `evidences` uses `operator.ior` (merge dicts by key), `opinions` uses `operator.add` (concatenate lists). See **`REDUCERS.md`** for how parallel detectives and judges contribute to state.

## Project layout

- `src/state.py` — State and data types (Evidence, JudicialOpinion, AuditReport, AgentState); reducers for evidences/opinions.
- `REDUCERS.md` — How parallel nodes write to state and how reducers merge them.
- `src/tools/repo_tools.py` — Sandboxed clone, git history, AST-based graph structure analysis.
- `src/tools/doc_tools.py` — PDF ingest (chunked/RAG-lite), query_doc, image extraction (requires Pillow via `pypdf[image]` for diagram analysis), analyze_diagram (vision optional).
- `src/nodes/detectives.py` — RepoInvestigator, DocAnalyst, VisionInspector (return evidences per dimension).
- `src/nodes/judges.py` — Prosecutor, Defense, Tech Lead (structured output per dimension; OPENAI_API_KEY).
- `src/nodes/justice.py` — EvidenceAggregator, judge_collector; ChiefJusticeNode (Phase 4).
- `src/graph.py` — `build_detective_graph()`, `build_audit_graph()` (through Chief Justice), `create_initial_state`, `run_audit`.
- `src/run.py` — Entry point `run_audit(repo_url, pdf_path?, rubric_path?, output_path?)` and CLI `python -m src.run`.
- `rubric.json` — Machine-readable rubric (dimensions, synthesis rules).
- `specs/` — System requirements, architecture, API contracts.

## Testing

```bash
uv run pytest tests/ -v
```

Commit message:

updated rubric and implementations with the new rubric for peer grading

README.md, after:

# Automaton Auditor

Automated quality-assurance swarm that audits GitHub repositories and PDF reports using a **Digital Courtroom** architecture: Detectives collect forensic evidence → Judges (Prosecutor, Defense, Tech Lead) deliberate per rubric criterion → Chief Justice synthesizes a verdict.

## Requirements

- **Python 3.11+**
- **[uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/)** for package management

## Setup

**Prerequisites:** Python 3.11+ and [uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/). For reproducible installs, `uv sync` uses the project's **`uv.lock`** (pinned dependency versions).

1. **Install dependencies**

   ```bash
   uv sync
   ```

2. **Environment**

   Copy the example env file and set your API key (required for Judge nodes):

   ```bash
   cp .env.example .env
   ```

   Edit `.env` and set **`OPENAI_API_KEY`** (required). The app loads `.env` automatically when you run the CLI.

## Run

From the project root (so `.env` is found):

```bash
uv run python -m src.run <repo_url> [pdf_path] [--rubric path] [--output path]
```

- **Default PDF:** If you omit `pdf_path`, the auditor clones the repo and uses **`reports/final_report.pdf`** inside that repo (relative to the repo under evaluation).
- **Custom PDF:** Pass a path to use a different PDF (e.g. a local file or a path inside the cloned repo).

Examples:

```bash
# Use default PDF (reports/final_report.pdf inside the cloned repo)
uv run python -m src.run https://github.com/octocat/Hello-World --output audit/report.md

# Use a specific PDF
uv run python -m src.run https://github.com/octocat/Hello-World report.pdf --output audit/report.md
```

- **Where the report is written:** To the path given by `--output`, or by default **`audit/report_<repo_slug>.md`** (e.g. `audit/report_Hello-World.md`). The file is Markdown: Executive Summary, Criterion Breakdown, Remediation Plan.
- **Errors:** Missing `OPENAI_API_KEY`, empty `repo_url`, or invalid rubric produce a clear error message and exit code 1.
- **Rubrics:** Default is `rubric.json` (1–5 scale). For points-based peer grading use **`--rubric rubric_peer_grading.json`**; report will show Total X / Y points and per-criterion levels/points (see `docs/implementation_plan_peer_rubric.md`). For **Feedback Implementation** to be included (not "No Exchange"), the **repo under evaluation** must contain peer feedback at **`audit/report_bypeer_received`** (a file, or a directory with `.md`/`.txt`/`.pdf`).

## Observability (LangSmith)

To trace the full flow (Detectives → Judges → Chief Justice) in [LangSmith](https://smith.langchain.com/):

1. Set in `.env`: `LANGCHAIN_TRACING_V2=true` and `LANGCHAIN_API_KEY=<your-key>`.
2. Run the audit as above; open LangSmith to see the trace.

## Docker (optional)

Build and run with Docker:

```bash
docker build -t automaton-auditor .
docker run --env-file .env -v "%cd%\audit:/app/audit" -v "%cd%\report.pdf:/app/report.pdf" automaton-auditor https://github.com/org/repo /app/report.pdf --output /app/audit/report.md
```

On Linux/macOS use `$(pwd)` instead of `%cd%`. Ensure `.env` contains `OPENAI_API_KEY` and any PDF is mounted where `pdf_path` points.

## State management

Parallel nodes write to shared state; **reducers** merge their updates: `evidences` uses `operator.ior` (merge dicts by key), `opinions` uses `operator.add` (concatenate lists). See **`REDUCERS.md`** for how parallel detectives and judges contribute to state.

## Project layout

- `src/state.py` — State and data types (Evidence, JudicialOpinion, AuditReport, AgentState); reducers for evidences/opinions.
- `REDUCERS.md` — How parallel nodes write to state and how reducers merge them.
- `src/tools/repo_tools.py` — Sandboxed clone, git history, AST-based graph structure analysis.
- `src/tools/doc_tools.py` — PDF ingest (chunked/RAG-lite), query_doc, image extraction (requires Pillow via `pypdf[image]` for diagram analysis), analyze_diagram (vision optional).
- `src/nodes/detectives.py` — RepoInvestigator, DocAnalyst, VisionInspector (return evidences per dimension).
- `src/nodes/judges.py` — Prosecutor, Defense, Tech Lead (structured output per dimension; OPENAI_API_KEY).
- `src/nodes/justice.py` — EvidenceAggregator, judge_collector; ChiefJusticeNode (Phase 4).
- `src/graph.py` — `build_detective_graph()`, `build_audit_graph()` (through Chief Justice), `create_initial_state`, `run_audit`.
- `src/run.py` — Entry point `run_audit(repo_url, pdf_path?, rubric_path?, output_path?)` and CLI `python -m src.run`.
- `rubric.json` — Machine-readable rubric (dimensions, synthesis rules).
- `specs/` — System requirements, architecture, API contracts.

## Testing

```bash
uv run pytest tests/ -v
```
